---
title: "Meetup Summary (March, 2018)
---

I reckon this is the first post in a long while on this website.
We've been having meetups for the last one year, but most of the
things discussed are lost in time because there is no record of
it. I thus felt I needed to put some of the stuff discussed in our
March meetup.

This month's meet up was hosted at Big Square- some decent fast
food joint- in Adlife Plaza. A healthy amount of members showed up
and one of the topics that was heavily discussed was: Black
Panther - the movie.

Black Panther is a recent film based on a Marvel Character by the
same name. It is basically about a mythical African country, that
was successfully able to avoid colonization and has been hiding
its technological prowess from the world.  The movie has been
lauded by critics and audiences all over. Some of the book club
members had also watched the film, and there were mixed reactions
to it.

There were people who did not like the film. They felt that it
focussed too much on an American's view of what a successful
Modern African country should look like. This, they claimed, had a
queer side effect of making the movie too similar in appearance,
action, plot and feel to American Sci-Fi movies, which is a bit
unsettling.

Furthermore, those who like the movie felt like it had a great
representation of African culture. This is a good thing, but I
felt like it should be an afterthought and not a key point to why
the movie is good. If not an afterthought, it can be argued that
this implies Africans are only worthwhile in entertainment.

Another argument raised was that vibranium is of critical use in
Wakanda. It is used everywhere, and is one of the main reasons for
its scientific developments. Vibranium is metal that is
otherworldly, which kinda implies that the only way Africa can
develop to that level is if it had some divine intervention.

For a movie that was primarily of black cast, an argument was
raised that it was pretty good. The success of the movie would
lead to more inclusion in Hollywood. A counter to that was if that
was what blacks could come up with, with all the resources given,
it was pretty disappointing. Something more should have been done.

# Animes discussed:

As with most book clubs, anime was discussed. Key was One Piece,
Full Metal Alchemist, ReZero and Death Note.

One Piece was hailed as one of the greatest anime of all time.
It's a brilliant story that mixes social and political strife
with a dumb witted character, where one need only think a bit
deeper to get the implications of what happens. An example is the
elites of the world wanting to have beautiful slaves (why?) or
even racism with the fishmen and how it affects relationships
between the two races. It also has the best idea of searching for
freedom, and of what freedom is, that I've seen.

The anime, however, clocks over 800 episodes (around 280 Hrs),
which is a great hurdle to get over. For potential fans, you're
advised to start watching it because it's only going to get longer
and longer.

Other great animes to watch are Full Metal Alchemist (it questions
who is God and what is the price of a human's life) and Death Note
(what would happen if you had the power to kill anyone in the
world? Would it even be possibe to arrest you?).

# Books discussed

## Harry Potter and the methods of Rationality
This takes a turn at the Harry Potter series. It is written by
Eliezer Yudkowsky. It takes an approach where Harry Potter is
actually smart and makes better decisions than in the original
books. Those who read it claimed it changes their view of the
original book.

## Wheel of Time series
This is a 13 book series, written between 1990 and 2013. Each
b0ok has around 900 pages. I'm currently reading book 2 and its
a pretty interesting fantasy series. Also since the series is
done, I won't have to wait another 6 years like the Game of
Thrones for another book.

## Other books
A glass ceiling is a barrier to advancement in life. Katherine
Boo's Behind the Beautiful Forevers explores this concept and
looks into the structures created to maintain the glass ceiling.
It is a beautiful story, with well built characters that will
leave you feeling more despondent that happy, and understanding
why some people, no matter how hard they try, will never be able
to succeed.

# General
Some people look down on their workmates when they fail to fix
common problems. This is especially true for IT practitioners in
Kenya. However, since IT is domain specific knowledge, they should
not be condenscending but try to understand their workmates.
Whatever might be too simple to you, might seem too complicated to
you mate. However, if you fix the same problem day in day out, how
should you deal with this workmate?

If the end is all there is to life, what should happen when
someone achieves all their goals in life? Should they just die or
continue living what would be a pointless life? Leo Tolstoy's book
deal with existentailism, so one might find answers there. 

Who owns your life? Is it you or the society? I believe I own my
life and should do whatever I want to do with it. So why is
someone else preventing me from taking it?

When someone is successful at something, the first praise is
usually to God. This is ok, but it shouldn't end there. The
problem with failing to acknowledge the effort you did to achieve
success should be emphasized a lot. The problem with this is that
it implies that others who failed were not worthy of
winning/succeeding. The problem with this is that people watching
at the sides will assume that is the case. Some may even forget
about the hard work put into the work, and go into crazy God mode.
I think if one is successful, they should be honest about what led
to it. Put in hard work, as the major points and end in God
(although luck would be a better fit).
